README.md, before:

# portfolio
Web portfolio for Coder Academy bootcamp assessment

*Purpose*
The purpose of this website is to function as an online portfolio, displaying both my personality and technical skills/experience. The audience is Coder Academy for assessment, but also the wider tech community and potential employers. 

*Functionality*
The website has four main pages:
-Home
-About
-Contact
-Work 

Search function
Search functionality is on all pages for all device types in the top right corner. This position is almost universally recognisable. There is a search bar with an icon and the word "Search", both for accessible design purposes and also best practice in terms of labelling icons with a word. Clicking into the search bar brings up the keyboard on both mobile/tablet.

Use of icons

Each page is represented by an icon. I designed these icons so the style was consistent with the rest of the site's look and feel. When hovered over, the icon's label pops up. When a page is navigated to, its icon sits in the middle of the page with its label visible. 

The icons were as follows
- Home page: house
- Work page: suitcase
- Contact page: envelope
- About page: information symbol in circle

Icon design in Figma

![Screenshot of icon design](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_Icons.png)

Bottom navigation on mobile/tablet

On the mobile/tablet layout, a bottom navigation pane was chosen during the design process. This is to facilitate one-handed use, meeting the UX criteria of Reachability. It was also a design choice based on current research in UX, specifically on the 'Touch' principle. I read that one-handed use is more common than thought, and that good design should consider functions sitting on the bottom within the 'thumb zone' (left, combined and right). I considered search as being potentially a core function of the app and therefore included it in the bottom nav bar.   

Bottom nav bar design in Figma

![Screenshot of nav bar design](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_Navbar.png)

Hamburger menu

On a mobile view, a hamburger menu sits in place of the two extra pages. The decision to use a hamburger menu instead of two more icons was based on three main reasons. Firstly, I wanted to allow for 'fat fingers and bad eyesight'—in other words, to use the principles of human-centred design for an easy to navigate UI. I also intended for there to be ample space for contact patches, since they vary in size and shape. Finally, I wanted a clean UI, and when I trialled five icons along the bottom, they were too close in distance and the UI looked cluttered as a result. 

Hamburger menu design 

![Hamburger design plan](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_HamburgerMenu.png)


Need to include: 
Description of your portfolio website, including,
Purpose
Functionality / features
Sitemap
Screenshots
Target audience
Tech stack (e.g. html, css, deployment platform, etc)
Design documentation including,
Design process
Wireframes
Personal logo (optional)
Usability considerations

**DAY 1 SPRINT**

My aim today is to
- set up Trello
- set up Github repo
- complete copy writing
- complete selection of colour theme
- design wireframes
- take screenshots of progress 
- minimise image sizes of screenshots
- add screenshots into README
- if time, bring forward some of tomorrow's tasks e.g. spike.

**Project management**

*Github*

I set up Github this morning and started adding planning notes into the README file. I've also created an Images folder to store images in.

*Figma*

I created some colour pallettes last night from a Klimt painting that I love (see screenshot below). The feeling of dark colours with bright highlights was what I felt like playing with intuitively for my portfolio. 

Colour palette planning in Figma

![Colour pallettes from a Klimt portrait](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_ColourPalettes.png)

When I thought about it, it was the colours from a photo of a big city after rain at night, with neon lights and blurred streelights that I was trying to get. I remembered a wall decorated for a Wed Anderson movie where there was a night scene with lights where the city buildings were like paper cut outs. I loved it so much, so I tracked down a picture of that and found a couple others for inspiration. I added these into Trello so I could refer back to them. 

Update on colour palette

I needed more contrast and wanted brighter colours (like the aurora borealis or the neon lights I'd thought of earlier). Played with those and I've decided that this is the colour palette I'll start wireframes with. Maybe with a more fluro yellow... :)

Colour palette planning in Figma—Take 2!

![Colour pallettes from aurora borealis](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_ColourPalette_Take2.png)


*Trello*

I set up Trello with days organised as sprints with daily retrospectives up until Friday (see screenshot 1. I've allocated tasks to each day and labelled each rubric criteria with the days that its areas are being worked on. Screenshot 2 shows Day 1 (Tuesday's) tasks. 

Screenshot 1: Day 1 trello set up

![Screenshot of Trello on Day 1](images/Day&#32;1/Trello_Day1_screenshot.png)

Screenshot 2: Day 1 task card—inspiration

![Screenshot of Trello card for Day 1](images/Day&#32;1/Trello_Day1_TaskCard_Inspo.png)

Screenshot 3: Day 1 task list

![Screenshot of Trello task list](images/Day&#32;1/Trello_Day1_TaskList.png)


**Portfolio requirements**

Notes from Leah when going through rubric: 
- try a spike (e.g. 2 hours) early on to consider whether technically the design is appropriate given the timeframe and assessment parameters
- RE images: minimise image sizes, try 1MB or lower if poss. 
- By tomorrow lunch, get approval on design
- To try multiple browsers, go to diff. browser e.g. Firefox, clear cache and load it in to check loading time / how fonts work etc. 
- RE font, 'less is more', e.g. one heading font / one other font or all same font with diff. weights
- Could try Hemgingway site
- RE tables, use tables in readme (Leah to clarify)
  
**Draft copy**

> Overall vibe/tone

- Friendly, conversational
- Light-hearted and playful
- Joy filled with touches of darkness

> Overall look
- dark
- colourful verging on fluro accents

> Home page

Hi! I'm a curriculum developer in Melbourne, Australia. After 10+ years working in education, I'm training to be a web developer—my dream job! 

I do other stuff too, like
- wite copy
- write content
- edit
- volunteer
- teach girls to code
- speak.

Good design and art lights me up, as does my Devon Rex cat, Admiral Nelson. 

My main drive is to leave the world a better place than when I came into it.


> About this site

This website is a portfolio for my Coder Academy web development bootcamp assessment. The brief was to design then deploy a well-designed and functional portfolio website.

> History of internet (w/graphic)


> Work

**End of day 1 update**

- Copy not finished bc Aaron recommended getting wireframes done earlier to get approval. 
- Got approval for design after showing home screens and 'About' screens in Figma. 
- I added in an image of the aurora borealis for visual interest after trying block colours, a triangle shape for text and a speech bubble, but finding all of these were too strong or busy to look good. 
- For the layout, I brainstormed what pages I needed while looking at the rubric, and settled on 
- - 'Contact' for links (Github / linkedin) and contact details
- - 'About' for more info about me and info about the page
- - 'Work' for examples of my work / experience / skills
- - 'Home' for home page with tiny hello message and icons. 

Checklist at end of Day 1

All tasks except copy were completed. I will complete those today or tomorrow. 
![Screenshot of checklist at end of Day 1](images/Day&#32;1/Checklist_EndDay1.png)

*Icons*

I created icons for each page (About, Home, Work, Contact) on the website by using the shapes in Figma. I made these simple, recognisable images, taking into account the principle of familiarity/recognisability in User-centred design.

Screenshots of design 

Early designs that were scrapped

![Screenshot of nav pane design](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_EarlyDesign_Navpane.png)


![Screenshot of layout designs](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_EarlyDesign_scrapped.png)

Approved Home screen designs

![Screenshot of Home screens design](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_HomeScreen_Approved.png)


Approved About screen designs

![Screenshot of About screens design](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_AboutScreen_approved.png)

Updated Home screen designs (post-approval)

![Screenshot of Home screens design 2](images/Day&#32;1/HomeScreen_Design2.png)

Updated About screen designs (post-approval)

![Screenshot of About screens design 2](images/Day&#32;1/AboutScreen_Design2.png)

**Day 1 retro**

I did a mini-retrospective on Day 1. I need to stick to my plan so I'm not stressing about time. I've been worrying that my brother is coming down as a surprise for three days and I won't have time, but I stepped out the project management stages and it will be okay if I trust the process. 

Screenshot of retro

![Screenshot of Trello card](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Day1_Retro.png)

**DAY 2 SPRINT**

My goals today are 
- to get most of my HTML structure completed 
- find out how to link pages within a website
- how to use svg files. 

I converted the uncompleted tasks from Day 1 into their own cards and they're sitting in Day 2 as well now. 

Screenshot of Trello board, Day 2

![Screenshot of Trello board](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Day2_start.png)


Screenshot of Trello task list, Day 2

![Screenshot of Trello task list](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Day2_TaskList.png)



*Code structure*

This is the plan for my code structure. I checked with Harrison and he thought a div might be better for the icons in the middle of the right half of the page (I wasn't sure what would be best). So now I'm planning to try a flex box for the search icon positioning, and divs for the rest of the sections. 

I tweaked the design last night and Harrison was happy for it to go ahead. 

For the icons, I'll be exporting them as svgs and using them that way. 

Screenshot of code structure planning

![Screenshot of Figma layout](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_CodeStructure_Plan_Day2.png)

*Sitemap*

I created a simple Sitemap using www.gloomaps.com.

![Sitemap screenshot](images/Day&#32;2/images/Sitemap.png)

*Design of other screens*

I created wireframes for the hamburger menu (phone/tablet only) and other main screens.

Work page wireframe

![Wireframe of Work page view](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_WorkScreen_wireframe.png)

Contact page wireframe

![Wireframe of Contact page view](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_ContactScreen_wireframe.png)

Commit message:

formatted code and added basic search

README.md, after:

# portfolio
Web portfolio for Coder Academy bootcamp assessment

*Purpose*
The purpose of this website is to function as an online portfolio, displaying both my personality and technical skills/experience. The audience is Coder Academy for assessment, but also the wider tech community and potential employers. 

*Functionality*
The website has four main pages:
-Home
-About
-Contact
-Work 

Search function
Search functionality is on all pages for all device types in the top right corner. This position is almost universally recognisable. There is a search bar with an icon and the word "Search", both for accessible design purposes and also best practice in terms of labelling icons with a word. Clicking into the search bar brings up the keyboard on both mobile/tablet.

Use of icons

Each page is represented by an icon. I designed these icons so the style was consistent with the rest of the site's look and feel. When hovered over, the icon's label pops up. When a page is navigated to, its icon sits in the middle of the page with its label visible. 

The icons were as follows
- Home page: house
- Work page: suitcase
- Contact page: envelope
- About page: information symbol in circle

Icon design in Figma

![Screenshot of icon design](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_Icons.png)

Bottom navigation on mobile/tablet

On the mobile/tablet layout, a bottom navigation pane was chosen during the design process. This is to facilitate one-handed use, meeting the UX criteria of Reachability. It was also a design choice based on current research in UX, specifically on the 'Touch' principle. I read that one-handed use is more common than thought, and that good design should consider functions sitting on the bottom within the 'thumb zone' (left, combined and right). I considered search as being potentially a core function of the app and therefore included it in the bottom nav bar.   

Bottom nav bar design in Figma

![Screenshot of nav bar design](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_Navbar.png)

Hamburger menu

On a mobile view, a hamburger menu sits in place of the two extra pages. The decision to use a hamburger menu instead of two more icons was based on three main reasons. Firstly, I wanted to allow for 'fat fingers and bad eyesight'—in other words, to use the principles of human-centred design for an easy to navigate UI. I also intended for there to be ample space for contact patches, since they vary in size and shape. Finally, I wanted a clean UI, and when I trialled five icons along the bottom, they were too close in distance and the UI looked cluttered as a result. 

Hamburger menu design 

![Hamburger design plan](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_HamburgerMenu.png)


Need to include: 
Description of your portfolio website, including,
Purpose
Functionality / features
Sitemap
Screenshots
Target audience
Tech stack (e.g. html, css, deployment platform, etc)
Design documentation including,
Design process
Wireframes
Personal logo (optional)
Usability considerations

**DAY 1 SPRINT**

My aim today is to
- set up Trello
- set up Github repo
- complete copy writing
- complete selection of colour theme
- design wireframes
- take screenshots of progress 
- minimise image sizes of screenshots
- add screenshots into README
- if time, bring forward some of tomorrow's tasks e.g. spike.

**Project management**

*Github*

I set up Github this morning and started adding planning notes into the README file. I've also created an Images folder to store images in.

*Figma*

I created some colour pallettes last night from a Klimt painting that I love (see screenshot below). The feeling of dark colours with bright highlights was what I felt like playing with intuitively for my portfolio. 

Colour palette planning in Figma

![Colour pallettes from a Klimt portrait](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_ColourPalettes.png)

When I thought about it, it was the colours from a photo of a big city after rain at night, with neon lights and blurred streelights that I was trying to get. I remembered a wall decorated for a Wed Anderson movie where there was a night scene with lights where the city buildings were like paper cut outs. I loved it so much, so I tracked down a picture of that and found a couple others for inspiration. I added these into Trello so I could refer back to them. 

Update on colour palette

I needed more contrast and wanted brighter colours (like the aurora borealis or the neon lights I'd thought of earlier). Played with those and I've decided that this is the colour palette I'll start wireframes with. Maybe with a more fluro yellow... :)

Colour palette planning in Figma—Take 2!

![Colour pallettes from aurora borealis](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_ColourPalette_Take2.png)


*Trello*

I set up Trello with days organised as sprints with daily retrospectives up until Friday (see screenshot 1. I've allocated tasks to each day and labelled each rubric criteria with the days that its areas are being worked on. Screenshot 2 shows Day 1 (Tuesday's) tasks. 

Screenshot 1: Day 1 trello set up

![Screenshot of Trello on Day 1](images/Day&#32;1/Trello_Day1_screenshot.png)

Screenshot 2: Day 1 task card—inspiration

![Screenshot of Trello card for Day 1](images/Day&#32;1/Trello_Day1_TaskCard_Inspo.png)

Screenshot 3: Day 1 task list

![Screenshot of Trello task list](images/Day&#32;1/Trello_Day1_TaskList.png)


**Portfolio requirements**

Notes from Leah when going through rubric: 
- try a spike (e.g. 2 hours) early on to consider whether technically the design is appropriate given the timeframe and assessment parameters
- RE images: minimise image sizes, try 1MB or lower if poss. 
- By tomorrow lunch, get approval on design
- To try multiple browsers, go to diff. browser e.g. Firefox, clear cache and load it in to check loading time / how fonts work etc. 
- RE font, 'less is more', e.g. one heading font / one other font or all same font with diff. weights
- Could try Hemgingway site
- RE tables, use tables in readme (Leah to clarify)
  
**Draft copy**

> Overall vibe/tone

- Friendly, conversational
- Light-hearted and playful
- Joy filled with touches of darkness

> Overall look
- dark
- colourful verging on fluro accents

> Home page

Hi! I'm a curriculum developer in Melbourne, Australia. After 10+ years working in education, I'm training to be a web developer—my dream job! 

I do other stuff too, like
- wite copy
- write content
- edit
- volunteer
- teach girls to code
- speak.

Good design and art lights me up, as does my Devon Rex cat, Admiral Nelson. 

My main drive is to leave the world a better place than when I came into it.


> About this site

This website is a portfolio for my Coder Academy web development bootcamp assessment. The brief was to design then deploy a well-designed and functional portfolio website.

> History of internet (w/graphic)


> Work

**End of day 1 update**

- Copy not finished bc Aaron recommended getting wireframes done earlier to get approval. 
- Got approval for design after showing home screens and 'About' screens in Figma. 
- I added in an image of the aurora borealis for visual interest after trying block colours, a triangle shape for text and a speech bubble, but finding all of these were too strong or busy to look good. 
- For the layout, I brainstormed what pages I needed while looking at the rubric, and settled on 
- - 'Contact' for links (Github / linkedin) and contact details
- - 'About' for more info about me and info about the page
- - 'Work' for examples of my work / experience / skills
- - 'Home' for home page with tiny hello message and icons. 

Checklist at end of Day 1

All tasks except copy were completed. I will complete those today or tomorrow. 
![Screenshot of checklist at end of Day 1](images/Day&#32;1/Checklist_EndDay1.png)

*Icons*

I created icons for each page (About, Home, Work, Contact) on the website by using the shapes in Figma. I made these simple, recognisable images, taking into account the principle of familiarity/recognisability in User-centred design.

Screenshots of design 

Early designs that were scrapped

![Screenshot of nav pane design](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_EarlyDesign_Navpane.png)


![Screenshot of layout designs](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_EarlyDesign_scrapped.png)

Approved Home screen designs

![Screenshot of Home screens design](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_HomeScreen_Approved.png)


Approved About screen designs

![Screenshot of About screens design](images/Day&#32;1/Figma_AboutScreen_approved.png)

Updated Home screen designs (post-approval)

![Screenshot of Home screens design 2](images/Day&#32;1/HomeScreen_Design2.png)

Updated About screen designs (post-approval)

![Screenshot of About screens design 2](images/Day&#32;1/AboutScreen_Design2.png)

**Day 1 retro**

I did a mini-retrospective on Day 1. I need to stick to my plan so I'm not stressing about time. I've been worrying that my brother is coming down as a surprise for three days and I won't have time, but I stepped out the project management stages and it will be okay if I trust the process. 

Screenshot of retro

![Screenshot of Trello card](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Day1_Retro.png)

**DAY 2 SPRINT**

My goals today are 
- to get most of my HTML structure completed 
- find out how to link pages within a website
- how to use svg files. 

I converted the uncompleted tasks from Day 1 into their own cards and they're sitting in Day 2 as well now. 

Screenshot of Trello board, Day 2

![Screenshot of Trello board](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Day2_start.png)


Screenshot of Trello task list, Day 2

![Screenshot of Trello task list](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Day2_TaskList.png)



*Code structure*

This is the plan for my code structure. I checked with Harrison and he thought a div might be better for the icons in the middle of the right half of the page (I wasn't sure what would be best). So now I'm planning to try a flex box for the search icon positioning, and divs for the rest of the sections. 

I tweaked the design last night and Harrison was happy for it to go ahead. 

For the icons, I'll be exporting them as svgs and using them that way. 

Screenshot of code structure planning

![Screenshot of Figma layout](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_CodeStructure_Plan_Day2.png)

*Sitemap*

I created a simple Sitemap using www.gloomaps.com. I had to think about how the pages were related and I'm still not sure it's right. I'd like to learn more about site architecture and systems design in future. It's like a fun mix of visual representation and content structure, which reminds me of what matters when writing curriculum. 

![Sitemap screenshot](images/Day&#32;2/images/Sitemap.png)

*Design of other screens*

I created wireframes for the hamburger menu (phone/tablet only) and other main screens.

Work page wireframe

![Wireframe of Work page view](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_WorkScreen_wireframe.png)

Contact page wireframe

![Wireframe of Contact page view](images/Day&#32;2/images/Figma_ContactScreen_wireframe.png)

*End of Day 2 update*

I needed a lot of help to get the HTML structure in place in terms of files and what order to put code in (and whether flex or grid is better).

However, the home page is on its way to being designed and is almost completely stucutured. 

I am considering scrapping the search functionality from the MVP on advice from an instructor and considering how long it took me to do one page without search.

*Retro*
What I felt most strongly from my retro for Day 2 is that I need to stop feeling stupid when I ask for help. It isn't helping and I learn faster by watching someone else then copying. Although that doesn't seem to be how they want us to learn here, I'm kind of sick of beating myself up for it. 

Trello card for retrospective, Day 2

![Screenshot of Trello card](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Retro_Day2.png)

Overall, I'm on track except I was hoping to get more HTML code done by now. 

Trello board at end of day 2

![Screenshot of Trello card](images/Day&#32;2/images/Trello_Day2End.png)
